Wasting sets on shoulders can slow progress and cause joint pain over time. We're fixing that today. My name is John. I coach some of the top IB pros and we built some shoulders on them. However, that wasn't always the case for me. Some of my first pro shows, I didn't have the best round shoulders and they were pretty flat. So, I found movements that really worked well for me. Today, we're going to go through them. This is my body part series where I cover muscle anatomy, biomechanics, and how to apply it to get the most out of your training. Today, we're training front delts. And this will round out our delt series, no pun intended, to round out our delts. A lot of people get plenty of delt simulation just from their chest pressing where I cover everything that we need to around front delt if they are a priority for you. First thing to look at, it would be front delt anatomy. Like I mentioned in our last video series, the delts actually have seven functional segments. There's actually three functional segments of the front delts themselves. They attach on the humorris and running across into the clavicle and then back across to the chromium. So we have these three divisions. So things that you need to know about how the del functions. So it moves the arm up and across the body. Then also up and out to the front. So we want two things that exercise that we're going to train up and across and up and out in this direction. So we dive into my number one pick to start. All right. number one pick for a front delt exercise that's going to move us from up and across. I'm going to start with a dumbbell press. With this dumbbell press, you'll notice that I'm laying back more like 60 75°. Reason being is when you turn up to getting up towards 90°, you won't have a back brace to push into. So, it does create a lot of stabilization that you need. Also, it requires a lot of external rotation of the shoulder to get in this position. A lot of guys will notice their range will kind of stop here. Then also is more of a tricep and joint stacking at the top to lock out. So when I move into this incline position, I don't need as much external rotation and also I can bring my arm in a little bit for adduction and I can bring my shoulder way down and get a lot more stretch out of this front delt. Now with our dumbbell press, so I mentioned that we need to push our arms up but also across. The dumbbell allows this. So, as you press, you can converge the hands together, moving up, and you don't want your hands right at 90° to the wall. Again, they're going to be at about 45° pushing them up and together. Now, the dumbbell is a great option. However, if you need something more stable, as the dumbbells can kind of suck to coordinate at times, is a Smith machine press can be a very viable option. Now, again, like I said, I'm not huge on the 90° traditional military press, but let me know down below. Is the overhead press overrated? Now, if you have a really good converging shoulder press, this is about the angle and setup that I would look for. Something that's 60 75° kind of more that neutral hand position or even at a 45° that converges together as you press up. So, typically you're going to have a lot of chest pressing already. I do coach some females that are like in figure or WPD divisions. You don't need a lot of chest pressing. It's still a lot of focus on like the upper shelf and delt. So, they're not getting the same amount of volume in their front delts. Or another thing is you have maybe amazing chest and your delts still kind of suck. You might need more than just a press because you're also going to get some tricep work in too. So, maybe you have amazing triceps. So, this is where isolation work could come in. So, that movement that's moving from up and in like our press does, you could do with the cable. So, we're going to step out from our cable raise. This is set right at 90° where the rope forms with my hand. moving it back behind the body to get some extra stretch on the front delts. And then we're going to come up at an angle across the chest. That's going to line up really good with those front delt fibers just like we were training in our press. Set here exercise that I would pick for the front delt. We talked about moving from up and across. So, we want something that moves a little bit up and out. Not quite a lateral raise, still more kind of in the scapular plane. So instead of this one that goes from up and across, we're going to step a little closer to our cable and then we're going to move up and out. So we're going to move from a little bit more all the way from the front delt to get to front to some middle delt. Now, if you watched our middle delt video, we did do lateral raises in the scapular plane, but the hand position was different. On the hand position there, we had more of our pinkies up. And you'll notice in this position, the front delt rotates to point up towards the ceiling. So that's what we're working. But we still have this cable set at 90° with the arm behind the back. Then moving up and out. If you look down the arm, the cable runs between my hand through the elbow through the shoulder joint. Queuing on this one. Push the hand down into the ground. Then scrape the ground and the wall as you go all the way up to the top to your peak contraction. Then reverse the motion back down. Now, I did show you a lot of single arm cable work, but if you have a narrower dual cable system, you absolutely could do it both where you can have those cables set behind the back crossing then moving up as well or even doing one that's where we're moving across the body. You can even lay down on a bench and have those cables set up to where we have even more of a stable brace. So, I don't have that setup here. I usually do a lot of single arm, but just options and variations for you programming. Let's tie all this delt work together from our rear delt, side delt, and our front delt video series. So, if your delts really need work, I want you to trim three days a week. Start with re rear delts on all those days because rear delts, like you said, are usually underdeveloped. From there, you're going to move to side delt work. Now, two of those sessions have a shoulder press after your side delt work. Then, one of those middle sessions have a front delt raise that we've showed you. This way, you're hitting rear, side, and front three days a week. in the front of your sessions. This will put them as priority and start bringing up those shoulders to be bolder shoulders. Now, if you have a lot of weak body parts you struggle with, check the link down below. I have my weak body part audit analysis that you can use. See what part of the stimulus that you might be lacking and give you some real guidance to bring up your weak body parts. Thank you all for tuning in to this body part series and I will see you on the next one.