Wasting sets on shoulders can slow progress and cause joint pain over time. We're fixing that today. My name is John. I coach some of the top IB pros and we built some shoulders on them. However, that wasn't always the case for me. Some of my first pro shows, I didn't have the best round shoulders and they were pretty flat. So, I found movements that really worked well for me. Today, we're going to go through them. This is my body part series where I cover muscle anatomy, biomechanics, and how to apply it to get the most out of your training. Today we're hitting the side delts, which is what's going to give you the most shoulderto-shoulder width. I have so much to say to delts. This is a three-part miniseries in our body part series. So, subscribe so make sure you don't miss one of the other body parts that we do cover. Now, side delt anatomy. Things that I already mentioned in the rear delt video is there's seven functional aspects of the delt, but for all intents and purposes, the delt can function throughout just a few different ranges. So, we just want to make sure we have some variation of what we do. Now, for the side delt, very simple. moves the arm out to the side of the body. And so our exercises are going to be putting you in that position. But there are some nuances and fixes that I'm going to have for you. So let's jump to the first the most basic one. It's a dumbbell lateral raise. Dumbbell lateral raise. It's the OG for building the side delts. It's usually it's pretty simple. Move them out straight to the sides, right? But there are some things that can improve this cuz what I found is a lot of times that as someone's moving up, they tend to rotate their thumbs upward. And what we want to know about the side delt is whatever the weight is on the opposite side of the arm, that's the part of the delt that's working. So, as this thumb rotates up, you'll see that my delt, my front delt is pointing towards the ceiling. So, it's going to start working a little bit more. So, the Q that I like here is pointing the dumbbell and palm down towards the ground. You might see some people leaving Q pointing the pinkies up. Now, the problem with the pinkies up is that it can impinge the shoulder a little bit and bother some guys. Now, there's a fix for all this. Instead of training in this frontal plane, we're going to move to something called the scapular plane, which is just about 10° in front of the body. So now we can move this arm out in front and you'll be able to keep that side delt pointing up towards the ceiling and also it'll free up the space in the delt where you don't get as much impingement. Now things about the delt to know is that the side delt can come in this direction but it can also come in this direction behind you to fully train it. And so there's a variation with the dumbbell to be able to train both. But to train this scapular plane more of the front part of the middle delt is we want to train in that scapular plane. And the cue that I would use too is pushing the dumbbells down and then dragging them out against the wall all the way till you get up to the top. That way it keeps a lot on the delt. You won't get a lot of trap involvement. So with our dumbbells, one way to get a little bit more out of your side delt is use an incline bench. This is going to bring the arms a little bit back behind the body and stretch the delt a little bit more. But we'll use that same cue of move it out in that scapular plane and then bring it back down. Now I mentioned that we want to also do something that moves across the body. So, we're going to flip around on the single bench. So, we lean into the sing incline bench. Now, we see the dumbbells are now moving across the body. Now, there's not a lot of tension on your dumbbells right now or the side delts. I'm going to show you a fix here in a second for that. But now that they're more in front of the body, we can now move up like a Y position. Now, this is going to train a little bit of rear delts, but also that rear portion of the side delts. That's why we do both variations. Same queuing. Push the dumbbells down, scrape them up the walls all the way to the top. One variation you can do if you have dumbbells only is doing this one that goes across the body like your Y raise leaning on your incline bench can oppose the force gripping on here. Let the dumbbell come across and come up and all the way up to the top. You won't have much load at all here, but this is all about loading that delt in the stretch position. So with dumbbells only, remember two exercises to fully hit it would be doing something in the scapular plane, then something that moves across the body like a Yra. One of my favorite exercises is a cable lateral raise. and we can cover both of our actions that we're trying to do with the side delt. One moving from in front of the body and up, one moving from behind the body and up. So for our front of the body one, we set the cable up just to right below waist height. This is so we get a lot of tension right off the beginning of the motion. We're going to have this arm come down and across the body to really stretch out this side delt. Now queuing here, going to grip our handle so we can have some stability. take just a little bit wider stance. And then we're going to push the cable away from us and scrape the wall out as we go all the way up to the top. And what you'll see if you have this good alignment, this cable's going to run straight through my shoulder through my elbow to my hand. If you have it to where you're like this, you're not really going to have a lot of tension as much on the delt or if it's too low, it's not going to line up through the joint. So, we want it through that joint. When we get to the top, use that reverse that action pushing it away from you all the way back down and across. Now, here's another variation to be able to hit that from behind the back up in front of the body. All you're going to do from when you have this front position is grab the handle with your other hand and just rotate the body to where it's now behind you. And so now, this is now moving into the scapular plane for our middle delt raise. And again, what you'll see if you look straight down my hand, this cable's running straight through my hand, elbow, through the shoulder. That's when you have really good alignment. You can see if it gets off, it's not the best alignment. We want it going straight through the joint. So that's when you have your tension on the opposite side of the muscle that's working. Now, we have that cable still set at 90° with the upper arm. So you have a lot of tension at the start of the movement when the delt is lengthened. And then just push punch up straight forward. And that's going to be how we'll train our deltar cables. in both actions. Okay. In your lateral raises, if you do get any type of elbow pain or even wrist pain for that matter, that's when you could do use like a wrist cuff. So, it does move the load up the arm a little bit and a lot of those wrist extensor muscles, they do cross into the hand. So, if you can remove that out of it, you might not get as much pain at the elbow. Now, you don't have to do it, but give it a try. Who knows that, hey, having to focus less on one joint and some muscles around it, you get more delt. Cool. Give it a go. This is my favorite lateral raise, hands down, period. Even the brand Prime is one of my favorites. A few things about it. For one, adjustable seat height, which is nice. Also has a chest support, so you can really lock in and feel braced. Also, the loading is on the top of the arm. So, I've run into so many issues with a tennis elbow and getting irritated, limiting my ability to even do lateral raises. So, it's just another advantage to it. Then, if you do have a prime machine, you can adjust the settings to load different parts of the range, which is a nice advantage, too. So, setting this up to get the most out of it. So, I use yoga blocks because if you put your chest all the way on the pad, sometimes your hands end up being off the machine. And we talked about wanting to train the scapular plane and also having something that goes from in front of the body to the side. So, if you get right up to the side, you end up kind of having that issue where you might come up and feel like the rotator cuff is kind of binding. So, you move this arm a little bit in front of the body is where you can really get a lot more range out of it. So, what I do is use a yoga block, just position myself out from the machine, lean into it with my arms out in front of my body so I can get a lot of stretch from the side delt. And the same queuing is what we're going to use here is pushing the hands down, then scraping the ground as we come up all the way up to the top. And what I also like is being in this little bit lean forward position. It's okay if those hands rotate out a little bit and that side delt will still be in the top position. found a lot of guys that have shoulder issues in this position. They really alleviate it. Now, last thing I'll mention is on the cam settings. If you have one of these guys, there was a recent study that come out comparing training one arm in the short position and one arm in the lengthening position and the results showed it there wasn't even a difference where I hyperty. However, these were an untrained lifter and maybe these small differences and extra tension at every part of the rep could make a difference over the long term. So, I still find an advantage of using the prime machine. Start your first set loading it short. So when it's really hard up top, then adjust the cam. This would be cam three for your final sets where it's really hard off the bottom. So this way you load the entire range of the side delt from heavy from the bottom all the way to heavy from the top. What you'll find doing these adjustments is normally when you do a hard set that like say a dumbbell lateral, maybe you get 10 reps and the next set you might only get eight cuz you're starting fatigue in that part of the range. As you're adjusting the cam setting, you'll notice that you'll keep getting the same amount of reps. you'll keep able to producing force throughout the tire range, which I think those are the small differences over time that can add up to more growth. Now, I know you probably think, John, you didn't mention the upright row. Well, let's go talk about the upright row. All right, upright rows. I know you're thinking, John's going to crap on my upright row. I'm not going to be able to do anymore. That's not the case. The upright row absolutely trains the side delt. Just has some limitations you need to know about. So, typically upright row, you're internally rotated already. So you're already going to have some limitations in how high you can come up with a lot of people feeling a lot of shoulder impingement. Also, it's kind of like a bicep movement, right? You're going to have some bicep involvement. And being front of the body, it tends to be a lot of trap, too. Now, what you can do to solve this is keep the bar a little bit farther out from you with a little bit wider grip. But where you end up is this arm path is in the scapular plane. So, if I'm in this position, I just straighten my arm out. It's literally the position of a dumbbell lateral race without bicep involvement in a better position where you won't use a lot of trap. So this where I kind of say, well, why don't we just do a lateral raise. Now, you will do get some rear delt off the beginning, too. But this external rotation has a lot to do with the rotator cuff. So, just see a lot of guys end up with rotator cuff and shoulder pain doing upright rows. It's why I don't program a lot. However, they're still a viable option if you do like them. Now, there's one more thing we need to cover cuz I've seen it talked about for side delts is the overhead press. So overhead press for middle delt. So there's been talk that you train the middle delts with an overhead press. And while the middle delt absolutely has EMG activation in this position because you need to stabilize the shoulder and that's the study that it's getting extrapolated from. However, activation doesn't mean hypertrophy. And so that middle delts having to stabilize the shoulder in this position in the overhead press. So it does have to work some, but it's not going through its full contractile range. So where overhead press, we're going to talk about that on our front delt. But for side delts, it's not going to be our go-to movement. Okay, let's tie this all together for training the side delts. How do you want to program it? So, for side delts, frequency works really good, especially to get the volume in you need to grow. So, I would recommend training them at least 3 days a week with really four to five sets across all those days so you can get your 12 to 16 sets for the week. Now, all these exercises that I showed you, pick one on that day that you just connect well with, that you have access to. Then, your next training day, try a different one. It's okay to have three different variations across all those days. or if you have a limited equipment, just pick the one that you do have or the one that you really like. The main thing is just getting the volume that you need. Now, I do recommend having the variation where you have one that's training the side delt from the front of the body up and from the behind the body up as well. Now, if you're struggling with weak body parts, the link below, I have my weak body part audit guide to show you where you're having stimulus leak, not getting the most out of your muscle group, why it's not growing. So, check that out. Stay tuned as front delts will be next in our video series and I'll talk to you then.