Modifying training splits for advanced gains. We're going to talk about going from the bro pro bros split to become a modern bodybuilder. Welcome everybody. I am John Drew at J3 University. We elevate physique education. Today we'll be diving into this topic and discussing how can we improve upon the bros split who has stood the test of time in making progress and could it be a limiting factor though in pursuing advanced bodybuilding and could we get more out of our training by going to more high frequency approach. So why high frequency matters and this has been researched more and comparatively on different training frequencies and what a lot if you look into like the research world of things is that if volume is equated so your total number of hard sets for the week is the same whether it be once a week or twice a week or three times a week as a whole it showed that hasn't been much different as far as in changing uh hypertrophy outcomes. Now you can tear into this a bit more and uh more further analysis around this and I think as you get further into more advanced trainee this becomes more apparent that frequency does have a slight advantage with a little bit more being towards two to three times per week for training a muscle group and improving outcomes. So earlier on research it kind of looked like hey just total volume is really what matters but if if you as you get more advanced you do need more volume to put so much volume in a session has some limitations. So if you're training say back and you need 20 sets of back every set you do after the first set of back becomes less and less effective. You have what you have called is localized fatigue. So fatigue within the muscle of like, hey, this muscle is getting tired. It can nowhere perform as much. Then we have something called systemic fatigue which just feels like your whole body, your whole system makes what you feel kind of like brain foggy while you're training and that affects the entirety of how you can perform in that session outside of just locally for the muscle. So we have kind of two things going against you as you're doing more and more volume for a single individual muscle group. And there likely was is and there is I should say not likely but is within a session a threshold point of where more doesn't really produce more growth. So that this would make sense obviously right it's like well if I just need to do more sets in in a single session to grow more. It's simple as that right I go from my 20 sets why not do 30 sets why not do 40 sets. It's like there is a point of diminishing turns just like there's a point of probably a minimum threshold that you need. And earlier on in your training career, that threshold's really low. Just take like one set, you can grow like crazy easily just off that. But as you need more stimulus, you need more sets, right? So there there's a a point where we're trying to maximize how much stimulus you need a session to reach that threshold before we go too far and just accumulating more fatigue and doing extra work for the sake of no no further benefit but just eating into our recovery bank. And so this is where the bros split can kind of falter. And it's not that it's not a bad program because it absolutely works. We see countless individuals that have had success with single body part per week training and those are individuals potentially that they get enough stimulus for the week to grow off of. Uh the problem falls is like when you do need that extra stimulus and you're recovering, right? So that might take someone all the way up to a pro level. For someone else, if you train a muscle, think about your biceps, for example. Well, if you trained biceps in a session, you did 10 sets of biceps, how long are you sore for? It's like, man, if you've been doing that program for a while, you know your biceps aren't sore for more than like two days, but you're waiting another seven days to train them again. Now, consider, hey, I'm going to do back. I I need my my biceps somewhat fresh to train back. But but nonetheless, all these muscle groups you're training, most of the time, you're not wrecked for seven days. So what happens as you get more advanced is that you have that stimulus, you recover, but your recovery is a bit more enhanced now because you're used to the program. So now by the time you have recovered, you have adapted to that training that you did. You're actually starting to have some regression take place because you're not doing that same session again. So eventually get to a point of just kind of plateauing. You have a stimulus, you adapt, but then you start losing some adaptations. You have a stimulus, you adapt, and eventually it's kind of sees this flatline. But what if you train and had a stimulus and adapt and as you right when you recovered, you could train again, you do training again. And the more training stimuluses you can add together and adapt, the more you can train, the faster you can grow. So this is the idea of having a higher frequency split and where this could really have more uh advantages than doing the bro split. Also, the quality of volume. So, think about if you had 16 sets of back for one session. What if you only did eight sets for for a workout? If you only knew you had to do eight sets, you probably perform really high and then those those eight sets that you used to do on the tail end. Instead, we have a whole another day. you can start fresh and you're going to be able to output a lot higher in those first eight sets versus trying to do after your set eight, set nine, and set 10 could be starting to have the point of diminishing return. So, with even the same volume, you're going to have a lot higher quality level of volume. This matters when you're advanced because you only have so many sets that you can recover from when you're an advanced athlete. Another thing about this is lower fatigue. So high frequency training has been associated for one with lower perception of effort. So your program is going to just feel mentally easier to you. You won't be as taxed just psychologically. You'll also have reduced muscle soreness from the program as well. So after you train legs and you had to do 20 sets, you're not going to be like completely crippled the next day. You're going to be able to recover because you're only going to have to do six sets then do your next next six sets in the middle of the week. So, it's going to be somewhat easier to recover from locally for each muscle. Psychologically, you have to overcome this, though, because a lot of people emotionally need to feel like you got wrecked in the workout and that you're just obliterated the next day. And that's what you you would perceive to be in a su a successful workout. And that's just not the case. So, I have to tell you, you move to high frequency training, get ready because you're not going to feel like every muscle is completely obliterated and you're just devastatingly sore the next day. That doesn't necessarily mean that you're not going to be making great progress. And what dictates great progress is going to be that log book moving up over time. That is your ultimate indicator. Your good workouts aren't going to be how sore you got. It's not going to be how big of a pump you got. It's about moving your numbers up in exercises that trained your intended muscle group. Now, there's some pros with the bros split, right? It's schedule is straightforward. Um, you can focus on one muscle at a time and it still absolutely can work for many lifters. The high frequency approach though, it just can really maintain maintain consistent growth signals. You're constantly stimulating growth twice as often as you could be with the bros split. And also, it gives you a lot of flexibility to able to address weak body part areas. Like if you're stuck to only training a muscle once a week, what if you want to bring something up? Like wouldn't you train it more frequently? You absolutely would. And we see this with other approaches, too. And I'm going to give you some hybrid approaches that you can utilize. So, how can you actually apply this? Well, plan out your week. So, how many days a week can you actually train? Is it 4 days? Is it 5 days? Is it 6 days? And based on that is is how frequent we're going to be able to lay out the training frequency with ideally being able to train each muscle twice. For some of your smaller muscle groups, you could program these to train them three times, especially with body parts you want to be bringing up, especially the smaller muscle groups like biceps. Could easily train biceps three days a week if you really want to bring them up. So if you're doing four sessions a week, this might cater doing an upper lower split. If you're doing even three to six sessions, you could just run push pull legs. From there, um, you could consideration for prioritizing weak body parts with specialization cycles. So, this might be training a lagging body part, like it's chest or arms, two times weekly. And then you might drop volume on your strong body part. This is something you need to consider once you're advanced. Like you said, you only have so many sets that you can do for the week and recover from. If you're already maxed out on all your sets for your body parts and you need more stimulus for chest, you can't just do more on everything, right? You can't may just be able to do more chest. You need to sacrifice some area to then add back in volume to the other body part. So now we're going to distribute volume. So example here, you had 16 sets of chest on Monday. Well, if you're doing your upper lower split, we could do eight sets now on Monday and we do our other eight sets on Thursday or Friday. So, we're splitting our volume up. And here's some examples below of how you might adjust your schedule. So, if you're you were doing a bro split, you had chest on Monday doing 12 sets. Then on Tuesday, you did back for six 16 sets. What this high frequency approach would look like is Monday was just going to turn into more of like this upper session. So, we'll have six sets of chest and eight sets of back. So, we're just dividing our volume in half. Then Thursday, you do six sets of chest and eight sets of back. So, again, just split. Now, there's some hybrid approaches that you could take to this, too. If you're not ready to go full swing from bro split to like a high frequency approach is you could have Monday, you could have your 12 sets of chest. Tuesday, you still have back, your 16 sets just like you like. AR maybe you have your arm day. And on arm day, what we're going to do is you normally have your 12 sets of arms. We're just going to tack on three sets of chest. So, this is kind of like a week body part specialization cycle where we're going to bump up chest volume by 15 sets. Now, we might need to bring down leg volume or something else in turn, but again, it's monitoring your log book and seeing how everything else is trending and how you're recovering if you actually need to do so. But you might need to even tweak this a little bit more by if you've been doing 12 sets, reducing down to doing nine sets and then having that three sets later in the week. Now this also this doesn't break down for everybody here all the rest of the body parts of how you could divide this out but uh e easily you know you could move your if you have a shoulder day and an arm day you pull some from shoulders you pull some from arms to where it does look like maybe you have a pushpull upper. So there's lots of hybrid approaches to this. So you'd have a a chest, shoulder, tricep day, your push day, could have a pull day, be back or delts, biceps, maybe have your lower body day, an upper day. So you'd have the rest of whatever muscle groups you weren't able to hit on on push and pull that you've been doing. So some combination of uh push, pull, um a little bit of arm work in there. Then you might have just like hamstring work and a little bit of quad work for next session. So that could be, you know, five days per week of laying out a session, which absolutely could work very well. I've had people do push pull legs and then like upper lower at the end of the week and that that works excellent. Um, but there's a lot of variations from this, but being able to ideally get as the stimulus you need in a session, recover, and repeat that. And that's what you're looking to do. And if you are doing too much volume or too frequently, where you're going to see this take the hit is in your log book. So if in the next session you your numbers aren't moving up, look back to your previous session and reduce your volume down because likely you did too much in that prior session. Then run it back through. If your numbers are now moving up, perfect. That's where you have a volume sweet spot. Same thing goes when you go to that that next session. Are your numbers not moving up? All right. you might need to adjust the session before. So, it's just something of how you could adjust your log book um uh from from that data and make tweaks to your program. But, I'll leave it here, guys. There's a lot more to this as far as adjusting program design. Just wanted to give you some taste of how you can might manipulating the bros split and how high frequency training could uh just elevate your set quality and push you through plateaus if you are getting to more of that advanced State.