Training four days a week and your arms still aren't growing? It's not your effort, it's your split. Here's the exact setup that I'd run to bring up arms without neglecting legs or piling on junk volume. It's a torso limb split run twice per week. Arms get directly on your limb days. It's first in the session, so they're completely fresh. Then your arms are hit indirectly on your torso days through all your pressing and your pulling. So this means that arms are going to hit four times per week without a dedicated arm day. Let me walk you through every single one of these sessions. Day one is torso A. Chest is first. Priority goes to the weakest points. If your back lags, flip it. You'll start with a flat press and an incline fly, a vertical pull like a single arm pull down in the sagittal plane out in front of the body, a horizontal row like a T-bar row, then another vertical pull like a lat pull down in the frontal plane think like a straight bar, and a lateral raise. If your side delts really suck, put this first in the session. Then last is your rear delts. Day two is limbs A. Arms are first always on your limb days. That's the whole point of this split. Biceps, do a dumbbell preacher curl, triceps a cable tricep extension. For a hamstring curl we'll do a lying leg curl, then a quad extension, a quad press preferably a leg press, and a hip hinge like an RDL. Then finally standing calves. Day three is your off day. Then day four we're going to repeat this split [music] with different variations. This is torso B. So back moves to the first in the session for priority. However, move to chest first but only if it's still a weaker point. We're going to start with a vertical pull, single arm pull down variation, a horizontal row like a prime seated row, then another horizontal row but more of a shrug pattern leaning back like a cable row, an incline press, flat fly, a lateral raise, then rear delts. Day five is limbs B. This is going to be a higher volume arm day prior to your whole weekend off. Two bicep movements, cable curl and a hammer curl. Two tricep movements, tricep extension variation and an overhead extension. Then a hamstring curl for today we'll do a seated leg curl, then a quad press preferably a pendulum or a hack squat. Then last thing is an adductor machine. Day six and seven is an off day. For programming this, two to three hard sets for every exercise that I listed. Six to 10 reps on your compound lifts, 10 to 15 reps on your isolation lifts. Progress load and or reps week to week here. If performance is going up, you're in the right place with your volume. If it's not, scale back volume. Run this for 12 weeks. Arms grow and your legs don't lag. That's the torso limb split. A free torso limb guide is in the description down below. Use it as your base to build. Subscribe for more of these and drop in the comments what body part you want the next split to work around.