What's up, Nomies? I'm a professional natural bodybuilder, and today I'm going to share with you my favorite split that I've used over the last year to lean, bulk, and lose over 40 lbs. I've done many different splits over the years, but only one truly stands out in my opinion. But before we get into my current and favorite training split that I've ever used, I want to mention that if you're not already putting some effort into your diet, that you should really start there first. It's a lot harder to grow muscle tissue without adequate protein and balanced macronutrients. Much like the plants I water every day, we have to feed the body properly if we want it to grow. but you're here to know how to train. So, today I'm going to share my current 5day split. Now, this is all subjective and just my personal experience, but I've helped an absolute ton of people achieve similar results in my Daily Swell program. I help every new member with macros, meal plans, cookbooks, and you'll get exclusive access to my Daily Swell Discord. All for just $8 a month. So, with that being said, the schedule goes like this. Monday starts with a hamstring focused leg day. Most people need to grow them, so we hit them hard and we hit them first. followed by a chest focused push day on Tuesday and a back focus pull day on Wednesday before taking our first rest day on Thursday. Friday we hit our quad focus leg day and we finish off the week with a full upper day on Saturday. My legs have absolutely blown up over the last year and I believe that it's due to placing both of my leg days after my rest days. This gives our legs the best chance to have a good workout. So, I start with 5 to 10 minutes of some simple dynamic stretching motions and walking lunges. This helps get my knees warm with the addition of our first movement, a seated hamstring curl. I prefer seated over lying because of the stability of the seat. I begin with two warm-up sets and hit them back to back to save time before banging out three sets in the 8 to 12 rep range. Now that our knees are warm, I like to move over to a Smith machine or hack squat. I use these two motions interchangeably, but alter the foot position depending on the focus that day. Higher on the platform for hamstrings today and lower on the platform for quads on Friday. After demolishing three sets of squats in the six to 10 rep range, I move over to the Pit Shark machine for some stiff leg deadlifts. This is going to help finish off the rest of the hamstring with two to three sets. If you don't have access to this machine, you can trade it out for a barbell or Smith machine if preferred. Now, depending on fatigue and how my legs feel, I'll aim to do two sets of Bulgarian split squats as well. I rarely do more than two sets due to how hard these are. They're easily my least favorite movement, but they do work really well for leg growth. Our first leg day is finished up with three sets of abductors. This workout is well-rounded and will give you everything you need to toast your legs and gain some solid muscle tissue. My personal favorite workout of the split comes second with our chest focus push day. I've always loved the way a full chest pump feels, so this is the day I look forward to the most. I like to start the lift off with some good dynamic stretching for the upper body. Safety is always been a big concern for me in the gym, so I like to start our workout off with an incline Smith machine press. Most people need more growth in their upper chest, so placing this first is going to give it the best chance to grow. Two warm-ups and three working sets is all you need. If you don't have a Smith machine, you could switch this for a dumbbell or machine incline press as well. It's important to note that I do not wait on machines at the gym. There's always alternatives, and so if someone has the machine I need, I just choose something that is a close second. The muscle has no clue what exercise you're doing. It only knows the stimulus that you're giving it. Train hard, and the exercise selection doesn't matter as much as long as it's a good motion and feels good for you. But next up is our flat press. I prefer to use a machine due to the stability of having a chair and foot pad to hold me in. This is only going to allow for more pressing strength and more focus from you. Most of our chest volume for the week is on our push day. So, I hit three sets of flat press as well. At this point in the workout, I like to give my chest a break and move on to some lateral raises for the shoulders. A large delt is the key to a really aesthetic physique. So, I knock out four sets of 10 to 15 reps. I could go heavier for less reps, but I find that tends to wear on my elbows. This is one of those exercises that more isn't always better. Choose a weight that challenges but doesn't hurt. The last muscle group today is the triceps. So, I like to round out the workout with some machine tricep extension or weighted tricep dips. These are two staples in my training and I use them interchangeably depending on what's open. To finish off the triceps, I like to hit some cable tricep extension either with a rope or by crossing two cables again depending on what's open. And finally, for our last exercise, I like to toast the rest of the chest with a couple sets of pec deck or cable crossover. This gives me a nice little pump to finish the workout and saving us till the end allowed the chest to rest a bit so we can hit our pec deck effectively. This also creates the perfect time to check out the thick chest pump that we were just blessed with. Now we finish off the first half of the split with our back focus pull day. Just like in previous days, we're going to at least stretch what we're training first. Most people need to grow their lower lats the most, myself included. So, I like to start things off with a cable lat pull down. Again, two warm-ups and three working sets to get things started. I prefer an eight to 12 rep range here because it's easy to strain your neck if you're aiming for any lower. But now that we're warm, I go right into my working sets on the chest supported row machine. This machine is going to target our upper back because our elbows are a bit flared out to our sides. Three working sets later and it's time to move on to some biceps. I like to give the back a bit of a break so we can hit the last exercise with a bit more strength. So, with that being said, there's two staples in my current bicep training. Ideally, we want some form of hammer curl and I've been really enjoying this seated variation because my elbows are supported. My biceps have always been a strong point. So, two to three sets and it's back to the lats. For the third and final back motion, I like to do a single arm cable row. I'm really focusing on keeping my elbow tight against my side and dragging it along the ground. I do enjoy trading this exercise out for a standing straight arm pull down as well. And finally, our last exercise to finish off our pull day is a beaian curl. This is probably my favorite bicep exercise of all time, but it does trade nicely for an incline dumbbell curl as well. Pullium day is now complete and the pump was achieved. Now, you may be thinking that I forgot about abs, but I keep it simple with two main exercises. A weighted cable curl because it's an easy exercise to progressive overload and a leg raise of some kind. I prefer leg raises on a sit-up bench versus hanging. I train my abs once per week and suggest placing them after your shortest workout of the week, our pull day on Wednesday. Thursday is here and today is our first rest day. We've got the bigger portion of the split out of the way, but I do like to get my steps in and focus on recovery. Now, if you made it up to this point in the video, I'd love to know down in the comments what is your favorite split. While you're there, make sure to give the video a like and subscribe for the bodybuilding journey. We've got our show day in just 4 weeks and you don't want to miss it. Also, if you do want to support the channel, the best way for you to do that is to use code QP on Rise, Young LA, or Hummus Fit. These are companies that I trust and use daily and using my code saves you 15% as well as help support the channel. Now, by Friday, our legs should have recovered from Monday's thrashing. So, it's time to make them sore for the weekend with our second leg day. This one is quad focused, but I still like to start the day with our stretching, of course, and our seated leg curl for a quick warm-up on the knees. We're still hitting a solid compound with our hack squat or Smith machine squat. Again, just moving the foot position depending on the focus. We're going as deep as possible here. As to grass, three working sets in the 6 to 10 rep range, although I do prefer eight reps over six. Leg extension is up next to roast the rest of the quad. I can max out the machine at my current gym, so I'm training in the 12 to 15 rep range, although I'd prefer 8 to 12s here if you have enough weight. Three good sets and it's off to the adduction machine. This machine is crucial for a leg that's thick from side to side. If you want to close the thigh gap, hit these hard, just like everything else. And lastly, to finish the workout, we're going to slam the calves with as much weight as they can handle. I really like using a Smith machine and a step to get a nice full stretch. But I do have to let you guys in on a little secret. I haven't directly trained my calves in over 2 years. Calves are really genetic and so if you have long shins, most likely you have long calves. That's definitely going to make it harder for you. But what you can do is build up that genetic strong point upper body. In our last workout of the week on Saturday, this is a full upper workout that starts with chest and back and finishes with shoulders and arms. I like to alternate starting with the chest or back each week to share the growth. I start this workout again with an incline chest press variation for three working sets and a flat press variation for two working sets before moving on to the back. two lat exercises with the same set scheme. Typically starting with our lat pull down and our single arm cable row. This workout is finished off with four sets of lateral raises, three to four sets of a bicep curl variation, and three to four sets of a tricep variation. It's important to note that I typically add in an overhead shoulder press variation every other week. I get a lot of front delt activation in my incline presses so they get enough volume across the week. It's also important to know that I rarely directly train my rear delts. If yours is underdeveloped, you'd want to add some rear delt work in the split. I personally get a lot of involvement on my pull days and actually prefer the look of a smaller rear delt to enhance the appearance of the triceps. Now, Saturday after my lift, I get my butt to the grocery store. So, that way when I wake up on Sunday, I've got no excuses not to get my meal prep done. The food's already in the fridge and ready to be prepped. Once again, your nutrition matters a lot more than you think, so put some time and effort into it. Although Sunday is a rest day, it's one of the most important days because it's our time to get the meal prep done so that we can have a consistent week. But that's going to be a wrap on today's video, guys. This split has helped me put on about 5 lbs of lean mass and lose 40 lbs over the last 9 months. So, give the split a try. But if you need help with macros, meal plans, cookbooks, and daily workouts, consider joining the team. I hope you guys enjoyed the video. Hugs and kisses. P suit.