Hey guys, what's going on? It's Andy Baker again of andybaker.com and owner of Kingwood Strength and Conditioning. And uh today we're going to come to you again with another uh whiteboard programming lecture on the 4-day heavy light um training split. So um this is a very popular program. One of the reasons that it's popular is because unlike some of the longer uh full day or full body methods like the Texas meth the 3-day Texas method or heavy light medium split, those tend to be three day a week full body programs. Those work really well for beginners and early intermediates. As you start to get a little bit stronger, it becomes more and more difficult to train the full body at every session just because of the demands on your recovery and also the demands on your time. So, um, as you get stronger, it's going to take longer and longer to get through, you know, a squat variation, a pressing variation, and a pulling variation. Um, and I know a lot of the people that I work with really need to try to get their training uh over and done within an hour to an hour and a half. And it can be difficult uh to get all of to get a full body workout in in an hour to an hour and a half. So, what winds up happening is most of the people that we work with um as they get through the intermediate stages of programming are eventually going to switch to a split routine where they at least have their upper body and lower body uh split up into separate sessions. And that just makes recovery a little bit easier and it saves some time in the gym. So, but if we're going to do that, we need to know how to appropriately uh split the workouts up and still maintain enough frequency on all the lifts to keep our strength going. This is also going to give me an opportunity to fit in some uh some assistance work uh which is difficult to do on a full body program because again it's just very timeconuming and it's uh it's difficult to fit in anything other than you know really three or four main exercises. So um the 4-day heavy light split there's several different variations that we can work with. Uh we're going to start with first of all I think it's useful that we start with a definition of what is heavy and what is light. what constitutes a heavy lift and what constitutes a light lift because there's a lot of variability even with just in those terms. It's not just a subjective of of this feels heavy or this feels light. Um there's actually kind of some useful definitions that we can operate off of. So we're going to look down here at the bottom. So first of all, anything heavy um any any kind of intensity work that is greater than 90% of your one rep max. Okay? And if you're not using a percentagebased program, that's fine. But that's basically going to be anything that is a struggle for one to three reps is typically going to be greater than 90% of your 1 RM. So that's really how I define high intensity work is work that is done between 90 and 100% of your one rep max. Okay, so that's going to be singles, doubles, and triples. All right, volume work, okay, can also be heavy, although it's lighter than the intensity work. Volume work that happens between 75 and 85% of your one rep max. Okay, for between about 15 and 30 total repetitions, that could also be considered heavy work. So again, heavy is a little bit it's kind of relative. It's heavy relative to the rep range that you're working in. Okay, so five sets of five reps at 80%, which would be a very standard kind of working weight for a lot of you guys. Five sets of five reps at 80% would be heavy. now is it's not as heavy as a triple at 90%. But it's still heavy relative to the work the uh the rep ranges that you're working in. So, um volume work again is is going to be anything that or heavy volume work is anything that occurs between about 75 and 85% of your 1RM. And again, those percentages are not set in stone, but that's a very good ballpark. And between 15 and 30 total repetitions. So, if you're down towards the 75% end of the spectrum, that might be, you know, five sets of six, something like that would be heavy at 75%. If you're up in the 85% um part of the spectrum, the tail end of the spectrum, might be 15 total repetitions. So, maybe that's five or six sets of three. Okay? So, as you go up the as you go up the intensity ladder, you're going to come back down off the volume a little bit. So, but kind of anywhere in there what we would consider heavy volume work. Okay. Now, light work. Another way to think of light is low stress. Okay. So, we have intensity, heavy intensity work and heavy volume work here. Both of those things could be considered high stress. Light work could also be considered just low stress. All right. So, what's a good example of a light day? Let's say sets of five reps at 60 to 70%, okay, of your one rep max for a moderate volume. Okay. So, a set of five at 70% really isn't that hard. Um, a set of 8 to 10 at 70% would be hard. Okay, so 60 to 70% I put down here and I underlined it a bunch of times. Light does not mean sets of 10 to 12 reps between 60 and 70%. Because again, even though it's lighter, that's still high stress. Okay, that's still maximal. Okay, so if you're working between 60 and 70% of your one rep max and you're doing that for sets of 10 to 12, yes, it's lighter, but it's high stress. Okay, so a light workout is considered low stress. So we'll just say for our purposes most of the time that's just going to be some light sets of five between 60 and 70% and that's going to be at a moderate volume. A moderate volume for me is usually something that's around 15 reps or so. So three sets of five works really good. Four sets of four, something like that at around 70%. That's usually going to be about right. Okay, you can adjust that a little bit. It's not critical that there's some exact um you know there's some exact magical combination of volume or intensity with your light day work. Um it just needs to you'll kind of know when you're there. If it's so easy that it doesn't feel like you're doing anything, it's probably too light. But certainly if you're struggling, if you're straining, um you should never miss on a light day. Okay? So if it's if you'll kind of know when you're there. Uh but this is a good ballpark here around 60 to 70%. The 60% is going to be for your heavier lifts like your squats and your deadlifts. The 70% might be more for your uh benches and presses, which might be a little bit heavier on their light days. Okay? And again, at a moderate volume. All right? Now, depending on when you do your light day, okay? If it's the day like in a Texas method where it's maybe 48 hours after your heavy day or if it's on one of these programs where you're doing it after a heavy lift, the light day may not feel all that light. All right? it because you're going to be in a state where you're not totally recovered and that's okay. It should feel like a little bit of work, but it should again it shouldn't be so heavy that you're in danger of having any missed reps. Okay? So, a little bit of of subjectivity there, but that's all right. You guys can figure it out. Um, so now that we've defined that, let's get up here to a couple of these different programs and we'll see how to start putting these together. So, uh, on a 4-day split, okay? And let's just pretend that these days are Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday would be an off day, Thursday, and Friday, and then we're going to take Saturday and Sunday off. Now, do you have to train that way? Of course not. You can set up your workout days, uh, whatever fits your schedule, but that's just a good example of how you might do it. Now, I typically like to always do the upper body days prior to the lower body days. That's just because the lower body days have a much heavier drain on your central nervous system. So, if you're going to be doing heavy squats and heavy deadlifts, a lot of times if you go into the gym 24 hours later for your squat or for your bench press and your overhead press workout, you're going to feel uh a little tired, a little fatigued. Even though those muscles have not been directly impacted by the squats and the deadlifts, your overall nervous system certainly has. And that's especially true on your heavy deadlifts. So, I typically look at wherever I'm going to have the most rest days afterwards, that's where I put my deadlift day. So, if I'm going to have Saturday and Sunday off, I'm going to deadlift on Friday. And then I'll set the set set up the rest of my week around that. That gives me the most um available time to recover after the highest stress workout on the nervous system, which is always going to be your deadlift workout. Okay, so that's just a little FYI on the order of these. Um I know some people don't do it that way and they get away with it, but I think for 99% of us, this is going to be a better setup. Okay. Um so, we'll start with uh we'll start with a heavy bench on Monday. And again, this could be whatever we want it to be. This could be high intensity stuff at 90% or above. It could be high volume stuff uh between 75 and 85%. I'm not going to get into the exact setup of how you should do this because there that's a whole another video. That's there's like literally thousands of permutations that you could probably set up. Okay. So, let's just assume that your heavy days here are one or the other or some combination of some highintensity work and some high volume work trained maximally. So, we're going to do our heavy bench on Monday and then we're going to follow that up with some light presses. So, again, that would be at maybe 60 to 70% of 1 RM for like three sets of five reps, four sets of four reps, something like that. And then we might follow that up with some assistance work um that targets these lifts. So, that might be things like dips, it might be things like uh some direct tricep work, a dumbbell variation of of one of the lifts or something like that. So, and that would generally be for higher repetitions, 8 to 10 rep range, something like that. So, um, and then you'd be done with day one. Day two, we'd go to heavy squats and then we would follow that up with light dead. So, again, that would be like maybe working up to one, two, three sets of five at like 60% of 1 RM on the light deadlifts. After your heavy squat work, we take a day off. Now, we're on to the uh the heavy press. Okay? So, now we're we did the light press here. We're gonna heavy press here. All right? some combination of highintensity, high volume work. And then we're going to light bench. Okay? So, if we were at, you know, 80% for sets of five on Monday, now we're going to drop it down to 70% for sets of five on uh on Thursday. Okay? And then again, we might follow that up with some uh some moderate volume assistance work afterwards. Um moving on to Friday, that would be your heavy deadlift day. And then uh we would follow that up uh with some light squats afterwards. Now, if you wanted to do uh the light squats prior to the deadlifts, you could do that. Pretty much on all these other days, I recommend always doing the heavy lift first um and then following up with the light day. The exception might be on the deadlift day. I know a lot of you guys like to start the workout off with some light squats as just kind of a warm-up um for the deadlift. And also, you may not like uh doing any kind of squatting after you deadlift, especially if your lower back tends to get really really fatigued. But either way, it shouldn't really matter. you're going to be doing these light enough where the exercise order really shouldn't matter. So, it's really just kind of an individual preference type thing. Okay. Now, let's look at a second variation. All right. And this is kind of a heavy light routine and it's kind of not. This is actually you could you could uh and I believe in practical programming we actually had this program in the Texas method se uh section rather than the heavy light section. Okay. And there's a reason for that is that on this second program, there's actually not really a true light day. Okay? On this one, actually, everything is heavy. All right? But it's still kind of fits the formula of having one really heavy day and one lighter day. Okay? So, and the emphasis is on lighter, not light. Okay? Because everything that you're going to do in this program is stressful. The first and second lift um each training day are both high stress movements. So, of the two, this one is going to be much more stressful than this. So, this might be better for a little bit older lifter. This might be better for a younger guy uh who can train a little bit more aggressively. So, on this one on Monday, we're going to do our heavy bench. And on heavy on this program is always going to be high intensity work. So, we're going to bench heavy with everything occurring um at or above 90% for like sets of 1, two, or three. Okay, this is going to be heavy singles, heavy doubles, heavy triples. We're going to follow that up with high volume pressing. All right? And that's going to be high stress volume, 75 to 85%. So, we'll just say like five sets of five. So, this day might be bench work up to two heavy triples and then follow that up with press for five sets of five reps. Okay? So, two very hard lifts. Then we move on Tuesday. That's going to be your heavy squat day. Again, high intensity um one to three reps and then volume deadlifts. Um, and that might be that not everybody can do volume deadlifts, so you might have to do a variation. We're going to talk about that here in a minute, but some some of you can you can get away with doing some volume deadlifts. So, that might be, you know, three sets of five, something like that at 75%. Um, and then, um, moving over here, heavy press, sets of one to three, and then we're going to volume bench. All right, five sets of five, something like that. And then, uh, we'll do your heavy deadlifts here. One to three reps, followed by volume squats, five sets of five. So, this program um much much harder uh than the one above it, but also very very effective. You basically start every training day with intensity work at or above 90%. Okay? And you're going to get very strong doing that. The only problem with this one is you tend to only be able to run it for short periods of time and then you need to switch to something a little bit uh a little bit less stressful. You need to back off the intensity a little bit um for a couple of weeks and then you can roll back into that. So, um, that gets to be very individualized. So, I'm not going to go over that here. Uh, but just know that this is this is something that works very very well, uh, for a few months at a time and then it's not going to work forever. You're going to have to back off of that and start to reduce the frequency of those high-intensity workouts. Okay? Uh, going to be hard to do that four days a week. All right? So, um, let's look at the third variation. All right? And this is going to be where we start using uh variations of the lifts. Okay. So, in this first in the example of these first two, we basically just stuck with the big four. Your bench, your squat, your overhead press, and your deadlift. All right? And we just kind of messed with the sets, reps, and intensity level of those lifts. But maybe an even better way to do it is to look at also using variations of the lifts to to uh to to work into there. So, let's um let's take a look at this one. So, the heavy bench. Um again, this could be any combination of high intensity or high volume. And then we're going to do a variation of the press. So in here, I just put in a dumbbell press. All right? So we might do a heavy bench press and then follow that up with maybe five sets of, you know, eight to 10 reps of a of a heavy dumbbell press. All right? And then uh Tuesday would be heavy squat. And then instead of doing high volume deadlifts or light deadlifts, we would do a variation of the deadlift. So maybe a stiff-legged deadlift. All right? And we're going to do our heavy deadlifts here. So we're typically going to want to use something a little bit lighter here. So, a stiff-legged deadlift would be good. An RDL would be good. A power clean would be good. A rack pull probably not as good. Okay, that might be harder for a lot of people to recover from to be to say rack pull here and then do a heavy deadlift again on Friday. That's a lot in one week. All right, so um probably a lighter deadlift variation there. All right, then we might do a um heavy press on Thursday and then a bench variation. That would be like maybe a close grip bench press. Okay. Or it could be maybe a floor press or it could be a dumbbell bench press. Um an incline bench press. So some variation of the bench that serves as a little bit lighter substitute than your regular uh than your regular bench press. All right. Um heavy deadlifts on Friday and then we could do a light variation of the squat. Uh in this case, a front squat works really well. I love doing that. I love to deadlift heavy and then go right into a front squat. I think that's a good combination. Uh but you can use anything. A paused box squat. um a pin squat, you know, whatever you want. Any kind of light little bit lighter variation of a of a of a regular squat. All right, so that's the third um the uh third type of heavy light program. The fourth one I talk about, and this is probably what I program for most people, which is some sort of combination. So, a combination of one of these 4-day programs is often what I like to go to. Mainly because, and this is a trap that a lot of people fall into, is that whatever type of program that you're using, not you can't really expect all four of the main lifts that you're training, if you're training the squat, the bench, the press, and the deadlift, or maybe even all three lifts if you're if you're a competitive power lifter and you're just training squat, bench, deadlift, you can't always expect all of your lifts to progress on exactly the same setup. And a lot of people like to try to use a kind of a blanket uniform prescription for every lift that they're training, but that doesn't always work. So, for instance, your, you know, your 150 lb press might need a different style of programming than is your 550 lb deadlift. All right? So, you you don't you can't always treat every lift exactly the same. And a lot of times you're going to have to use kind of little bit different types of programming styles with each of your different lifts. So, same thing here. you can use for for sure you can use this 4-day template. Um just about anybody can use this, but in terms of how you actually set up your heavy days and your light days is going to vary a little bit um from person to person and from lift to lift. So um I typically wind up training people and training myself with a combination. For instance, I have found that um I'm not a big fan of variations of the lifts for the overhead press. I typically like to just have people press more frequently um or with more volume uh for their overhead press as opposed to doing like a lot of pin presses or variations of the press with specialty bars and things like that. I found that just plain old overhead pressing tends to work better. Whereas on the bench press, um I really like using variations of the lift. So things like close grip bench, floor presses, um incline bench presses, things like that, uh I will often use for a light day uh on the bench press while keeping the heavy day just your your standard bench press. Um same thing for the squat and the deadlift. For a lot of lifters, we'll just go with a heavy squat on one day and then a light squat on the other day, but we'll use variations for the deadlifts. So, we'll go a heavy deadlift on the heavy deadlift day, but then we'll use a variation of the deadlift on the other day, something lighter like a stiff-legged deadlift. So, um again, you just have to kind of play with it a little bit and find what works for you. Uh but the main thing is is just kind of keep the uh keep the nature of the program intact where you've got one really dedicated heavy high stress day for each lift and then something a little bit lighter or a little bit less stressful on another day. Um, and this program can in a lot of different permutations can yield a lot of results for a long period of time for a lot of different people at a lot of different levels of strength. So, it's one of the most um useful programs that we have out there and you see it in use quite a bit. So, um anyways, this is the uh 4day heavy light uh programming lecture and hope it helps some of you guys. If you want more uh programming tips, more uh more programs available for download, lots of free articles, visit my site, andybaker.com for lots more information. And uh hope to see you there, guys. Thanks for watching and I'll talk to you next time. Thanks a lot.