Muscles don't want to grow. You have to force them to grow. Adaptation is a painful and uncomfortable process, especially with leg growth. Quads grow with pain. I am Joe Linhardt, former Army Ranger, college linebacker. I've been a strength and performance coach for over 15 years. Let's get into it. People, they don't really understand how to build a leg workout. A complete looking leg has a lot more to it other than just the quadriceps muscle group. Okay? Adductors are very important. Hamstrings are very important. I am a proponent of about every other leg workout. I will start with a unilateral movement, a lunge or a split squat. Those are the most complete leg exercises you can do. 90% of your leg volume and 95% of the energy you dedicated to that leg workout were all quad dominant movements. And then you wonder why your glutes and your hamstrings aren't growing. The hard part for people to understand is if they're just not really that active outside of the gym, like doing longer walks and like even longer bike rides, their calves just probably won't grow that well. We have to push past the point of discomfort frequently in our leg training. And I'm going to be honest, I see people train legs and if they were honest with themselves, they really don't do that. Okay, so I get a ton of questions about what I do for my legs. You know, everybody's like, "What do you do to build, you know, your quads and your hamstrings?" Okay, lots of questions about that. That makes me think that people, they don't really understand um how to build a leg workout. And based on me watching people at the gym go about their leg workouts, there's a lot of stuff that I see generally that people could do better to get more out of their leg workouts and get a better result, get a better looking leg, looking legs, and get legs that have better performance capabilities. basically, you know, muscular, you know, strengthwise and and things like that. You know, I just did a podcast where I went over the benefits and importance of considering doing total body workouts and I stand by that and I do a lot of total body workouts, but just like the rest of you, I love having a leg day. You can just do a lot more with it. So, you know, a lot of the time I'll do like an upper lower split. Um, so about half my time is total body and half my time I I'll do some kind of upper lower split, you know, and the pushpull leg split isn't bad either, you know. So just a lot of people I think they they want to know how to build a leg workout. So I'm going to spend this time to give you my two cents on on how to go about doing that. So generally when I see people, you know, if I was going to have them write out what their leg workout is, um, I would see some commonalities. So first of all it would be bilateral dominant. So that means they would be most of if not all their exercises they'd be doing both legs at the same time. Now I know in the past we've made serious strides in incorporating more and more unilateral work and then it's gotten more and more popular and that's a good thing. Um it's not there yet but so most people's leg workouts are primarily overwhelmingly bilateral. Okay. bilateral uh in itself has a lot of benefits to it, but unilateral also has a lot of benefits. So, they would be better served by incorporating more unilateral work. And I'll go over how to do that or how I would do that in a second. The second thing is very extremely quad dominant. So, when I see people's leg workouts, 80 to 90% of that leg workout is focused on the quadriceps. And there's a reason for this. It's the muscle on the front of the leg. So, it's the muscle that most often gets associated with legs. It's the muscle they see when they look in the mirror. But a complete looking leg has a lot more to it other than just the quadriceps muscle group. Okay? Adductors are very important. Hamstrings are very important. Okay? There's a lot that goes into a strong, functional, aesthetically pleasing leg than just the quadriceps. I think we know this, but even though we do know that, it just doesn't get translated into the workouts. is still very quad dominant. Okay, a lot of people are frustrated with their calf size and we'll go into that in a minute, too. So, they spend a lot of time doing calves, you know what I mean? To, you know, they normally don't get much from that cal workout. So, we'll talk about ways to attack your your cal workouts as well. So, secondly, the biggest thing is is they don't going into the the quadricep dominant thing, they don't do nearly enough work for their glutes and hamstrings. Maybe females do more so than men, but men especially severely underestimate the amount of volume and intensity you need to do when doing hamstrings in order to really fill out your legs. And they don't really know how to isolate and attack the different heads of your muscles to get the looks they want either. So, we'll go over to that as well. So most people based on what they did in high school and athletics, they believe that for in a leg workout, you have to start the leg workout with a heavy bilateral movement. So like a back squat or a deadlift. And that's fine. As we age though, especially early in the workout and with a lot of frequency, loading the spine often with heavy loads isn't the best thing for most of us. Okay? It can still be done but maybe should be done later in the workout or and not as frequently. And in order to give that unilateral aspect of leg workouts its due. I am a proponent of about every other leg workout. I will start my leg workout with a unilateral movement. A lunge or a split squat. Every other workout. There's a reason for this. Those are the most complete leg exercises you can do. So squats are great. They're pretty good at developing the glutes and they're great at developing the quads. They're okay at developing the adductors. Okay, deadlifts are great. They're great at developing the lower back, the glutes, and the hamstrings. Okay, lunges develop all of that, including the hip flexors. They develop your hamstrings pretty well, your adductors pretty well, your glutes pretty well, and they take a lot of coordination. So, you want to be kind of fresh when you do those. And when I do see people doing unilateral work, usually it's towards the end of their workout without a lot of weight or intensity. So most of their intensity gets poured into moving a lot of weight with sometimes questionable form on that main bilateral lift. And by the time they get to the unilateral stuff, they might do two or three sets when they're tired and they never really try to progress the weight. So about half the time, I like to flip that on its head. I like to start my workout with a long warm-up, whatever it takes to get into my working weight with my unilateral movements. Now, my favorite unilateral lunge movements, the Bulgarian split squat, you know, I love it. Walking lunges, front foot elevated rear lunges, and a a step up or a deficit step up. Those are my all-time favorites. Okay? So, I like different types of lunges, too, but those are my favorites. So, at least twice a month, I'm doing a a Bulgarian split squat. And at least twice a month, I'm doing some kind of walking lunge. You know, I also at least once a month like to do like a front foot elevated rear lunge. And I will warm up progressively with the weight. And I will really try to push the weight heavy. And I think if you warm up enough, you can really do those with a significant amount of weight with good form. Like a lot of grown men, I will never see them lunge with anything over like 30 lb dumbbells, you know? And I'm lunging now consistently with, you know, 120 lb dumbbells. And it's not cuz I'm insanely strong. It's just because like I take that lift seriously, so I built up that capability. And the funny thing is those dudes, they, you know, we probably maybe squat a little bit more than them, but it's not like I squat six times more than them. So there's no reason I should be lunging with six times more weight. And I really feel like my leg growth took off in my early 30s when I really started to focus less on just heavy squatting and deadlifting, which I still do, but more on the unilateral lifts, more on lunging and split squats. So that is my first tip. Like really start to take those moves seriously with the squatting. Dudes love to go really heavy and there is some benefit to doing some heavy back squatting especially for your CNS. But quads for some reason they love high volume. Okay. So I started doing more and more of my squat work in a much higher rep range later in the workout. So on those days when I prioritize the lunge as my main movement, I will keep those reps somewhere in the four to eight rep range per leg. So fairly heavy, right? And then later in the workout, I will hit a bilateral squat, either a hack squat, a machine squat, even a free back squat, a cannonball squat, something like that. And I will attack that more in the 10 to 20 rep range with slightly shorter rest periods and a very full range of motion if I can achieve it on that day. Okay. I am a advocate at least for muscle size of the importance of full range of motion squats, whatever your full range of motion is, and slowing down the tempo a little bit, maybe even pausing at different um joint angles or at the bottom. Okay, if you really want your quads to grow, I don't think you need to always do full range of motion to see benefit from your lift, especially if it causes pain, but definitely my legs started to grow a lot better when I really started to get better squat depth and not worry about the weight so much. Okay? And then my legs got strong enough to where eventually I could move a lot of weight, not having to worry about the weight I was using, if that makes sense. So, that is the first that's the first tip is like really start to prioritize unilateral. Okay? I cannot emphasize that enough. The second thing I mistake I see people making is they don't do legs near frequently enough. They will probably have a leg day a week. Now the first thing we need to talk about there is why do we have to feel like we have to base all of our workout splits on the week that 7-day cycle. It just seems like an awkward amount of time that we try to arbitrarily fit our micro cycles into. And I understand a lot of times it fits our schedule. I got it. But, you know, doing legs only once every seven days, if you do legs hard, which most people don't. That's something we'll get into later hopefully. They're going to be sore. If you only do him once every seven days, you're going to be very sore for 2 or 3 days after that. And that's going to affect everything else you do. So, it's going to affect, you know, ability to play with your kids, any kind of like sprinting and jumping you want to do. you know, if if I only did legs once every seven days and hit it hard, I would be so sore for that seven days that it would it definitely affect anything else athletic that I wanted to do. So, my recommendation is to hit legs once every 3 to 5 days. So, normally I'll do legs, let's say I do legs on a Monday, I'll probably hit them again Thursday or Friday. And then those leg days have different focuses, sure, but I'm still hitting quote unquote legs on those days. The biggest mistake, you know, other than the frequency is another one is like dudes or people, they only work legs in the sagittal plane, like front to back. So a squat, a deadlift, a forward lunge, those are all sagittal plane movements, even a step up. All right? And those are good and that should still be the majority of your volume is sagittal plane, but there's almost zero frontal plane movements. So side lunges and cases is mainly what I'm talking about here. and then also like some banded lateral walks and things like that. So, we'll go over exactly how I structure my workouts in a little bit, but hope you're getting the idea. You should include at least 10 to 20% of your leg day volume on the frontal plane, right? And that's going to, you know, increase the size of your medial glutes. It's going to increase the size of your adductors. It's going to increase the size of your lateral calf muscles, things like that. that that fills out your leg and makes it look more like an athletic leg because athletes have to move in all planes of motion. And going back to the unilateral, my rule of thumb there is at least at least 20% of my work is unilateral. Usually I try to get it more up to the 30 to 40% of my total leg volume is unilateral in nature. Okay. So moving on. All right. So you know after that the frequency and you know the lack of frontal plane movement the lack of focus on unilateral movement a big thing also is just the general lack of intensity when we train our legs and especially progressive intensity. So the legs, and I'm not trying to sound like a tough guy here or anything, but the legs can really take a lot more than we think they can take. And our brain is going to tell us to stop the set long before our leg muscles are really done. So we have to push past that initial point. It doesn't mean we have to train a failure, but we have to push past the point of discomfort frequently in our leg training. And I'm going to be honest, I see people train legs, and if they were honest with themselves, they really don't do that. their legs will get slightly uncomfortable and then they'll stop the set or they'll start to breathe really hard and they'll stop the set. You have to start pushing past that more frequently because muscles don't want to grow. You have to force them to grow. Adaptation is a painful and uncomfortable process in all areas of life, especially with leg growth. Okay? You know, I always say I can't tell you how strong somebody is or how fast they are or how athletic they are by their quad development, but I will I promise you that I can tell you they if they have big muscular quads, then they have a high pain tolerance because you quads grow with pain. You have to make it hurt for quads to grow. Okay? Glutes and hamstrings, they need high tension. Squats, they need quads, they need a lot of pain. So, there's that. And then the percentage of the time they dedicate to their hamstring work is much too small. Honestly, if you're honest with yourself, like let's say a typical leg workout, and I'll you ask somebody like, "What's a typical leg workout?" They'll say back squats and then leg press and then leg extensions and then leg curls. Okay? Well, 90% of your leg volume and 95% of the energy you dedicated to that leg workout were all quad dominant movements. And then you wonder why your glutes and your hamstrings aren't growing. And glutes and and leg or leg press and squats are okay at growing your glutes, but they're not really glute dominant exercises. They're really quad dominant exercises. And honestly, 50% of your leg training energy and volume needs to go into glutes and hamstrings. Okay? So, every other workout, I make sure that I start that leg workout with a hinge dominant activity that one that focuses, you know, if it's not a deadlift, which we'll talk about in a little bit, it's some kind of universal extension pattern. And then you have to find ways to create a lot of tension in your glutes and hamstrings without just loading your axis. So, a lot of people, they're limited on how much volume and energy they can put into developing their glutes and hamstrings because the only glute and hamstring exercises they put a lot of energy into are things that require your long axis to be loaded, which just drains your energy in your CNS, which is, you know, it's a good thing for performance to to tax that a little bit, but there's still a lot of growth left in the tank in your glutes and your hamstrings that you're leaving on the table by not, you know, employing additional volume of high tension and that's key high tension semiis isolated glute and hamstring work and the best ways I found to do this is through hip thrusts some kind of like 45°ree extensions hip extensions and Nordic or glute ham raises. So my legs really started to grow when I did these four things. I started to use more frequency. I started to prioritize unilateral. I started to dedicate a lot more time and energy to hamstrings, especially Nordics and glute ham raises and I started to really do high rep squatting. Those are the four things that I can point to when my legs really started to grow in my early 30s. All right? And you know, I did start taking testosterone when I was 40, but my legs had started to grow a full decade before that. So, you can't attribute all of my leg growth just to anabolic substances there. There was a lot of growth that went on a decade before that because I feel like I prioritized those four things which I wasn't doing in my early 20s. I would do mostly squat movements bilaterally. I didn't really focus on my hamstrings very much. Um I didn't do it as frequently, things like that. Okay, so let's go into the specifics of how I structure my leg workouts. So for most of my hinging, I will keep my hinges, heavy loaded hinges in the four to eight rep range. Okay? And then I will start every other leg workout like I said with a unilateral movement. Usually a walking lunge, a Bulgarian split squat or sometimes a front foot elevated rear lunge. Those are my main three. Okay. Every other workout is starts with that and it's usually considered a quad focused leg workout when I do that. Every other workout other than that I will start with a hinge movement. Okay. when I start with the unilateral movement and the second movement is normally an unloaded hinge movement right but when I start my workout and then later in that that quad dominant workout even though I am doing some hinging there that that's when I will do my high rep squats okay now when I start with a hinge movement a lot of times the second movement in that workout will be a unilateral movement okay so let's say on day one with my first leg workout of the week or of my micro cycle, which is normally 8 to nine days. Let's say I will do Bulgarian split squats as my first movement. Then my second movement will be some kind of unloaded, usually some kind of unloaded hip hinge. So like a back extension or something like that where I can start to activate my glutes and my hamstrings a little bit more without taxing my nervous system too much. Okay. And then my third movement that day will be more of a you know high rep squatting movement like cannonball back squats normally of sets of like eight to 20. So normally 10 to 15 and so most of those fall between 10 and 12. So with you know my main movement of the day Bulgarian spo squats I'll do somewhere between 6 to eight reps normally for that movement. Taking a lot of time on that one exercise really working up so I can like move a lot of weight on that one day. And then I will, you know, prep my glutes and hamstrings and get some stimulus there with the second movement unloaded. So no, normally uh reverse hypers or, you know, something like a 45 degree extension. I love those. I do those all the time. Or single leg 45°ree extension. And then I will go into three to four sets of a high rep squat movement like cannonball squats, sometimes hack squats or, you know, leg press or some kind of machine squat. Okay? And then I will get into my auxiliary movements, which is normally like a leg extension, squats. Um, that's when I also get my my lateral band walks in for my medial glutes. And then I will finish with, you know, like a seated leg curl or something like that. You know, it's pretty standard, but that's normally a quad focused, you know, uh, leg day. The next day will be more of a hinge focused leg day. Well, I will start and spend a lot of time with some kind of hinge movement. Um, so and I kind of misspoke here, so I got to back up. But so I actually only do a hinge movement, heavy hinge movement one to two times a month. So every other time on that glute focused day, the first movement of that day will be a bilateral squat. So I didn't so about once or twice a month, I will do like start a workout with a very heavy hinging movement. Okay? So let's say that's that workout. Then my favorite hinging movements are RDL's, barbell RDL's. I love frog stance deadlifts a lot. I love trap bar deadlifts and I love snatch grip deficit deadlifts. Those are my four favorite hinging movements that are axial loaded. And for those I normally go very heavy because for me that's a really CNS dominant movement and I'm looking to build a lot of strength, not just muscle size. So somewhere between three and six reps normally is where I keep that rep range. north of 80% of my one rep max. So, you know, I will normally do four to five sets of that with a minimum of two sets at my highest working weight. And then the next movement of that day will normally be some kind of unilateral movement as well. So, if I did Bulgarian split squats earlier in that micro cycle on this day, I will do like a walking lunge or a front foot elevated rear lunge. Normally on that day, I will get something like 6 to 10 rep range. So, a little bit higher. um normally a little bit lighter weight than I did earlier in the week. Okay. And then after that, like I really want to focus on my glutes on that day. I might add another hip hinging movement that's unloaded. So if I did, you know, 45 degree back extensions earlier in the week, I might do reverse hypers now. And then I will spend a lot of time after that focusing on a single joint high tension hamstring movement, which is normally like a some type of Nordic. So, I'll normally do four sets, four to five sets of that at something like four to seven reps. So, very high tension there to get that hamstring growth. On those days, I normally also like to add in my frontal plane movements. So, I make sure that at least every other workout I'm doing a frontal plane movement and it's normally some type of casac squat. Okay. So, in that microcycle, let me recap. We have the workout that starts with the unilateral movement, whatever I choose that to be. And then the next day I start with a heavy bilateral movement. Half of those days it's a hinging movement. So on the other half of days when I do my squatting movements for that bilateral for the days that I start with a heavy bilateral movement, I really love to do safety bar back squats because it's easier on my shoulders and it allows for a bunch of different subtle movement variations. Okay. And then the other type of bilateral squats that I love to do on that day are zer squats. You all know I love my zer squats because you know that kind of in some ways simulates like a low bar back squat. You can get a lot of like glute and some hamstring and adductor uh work in there with those. Move a lot of weight on those zer squats. Normally four to six reps there. I love to do pause reps with those a lot or wave squats which we'll talk about. So my two favorite are safety bar back squats, zer squats. And I also like to sometimes start those workouts with a very heavy hack squat. So I use I take a lot of time warming up, but I will load up that hack squat and I'll do something like four to six reps with a very heavy hack squat to really overload, you know, my quads and glutes cuz the hack squats, I mean, they're obviously quad focused, but you get a lot of glute workout in there, too. So, you know, and then on those days, then then I'll do my second lift will normally, you know, be some kind of like if I start with a bilateral squat movement on that day. I normally won't do a unilateral movement second. I'll normally either do that frontal plane movement second, and then I'll do like an another unloaded hinge movement second, like a banded 45°ree back extension, normally three to four sets of 8 to 12 reps there. And then on that day I'll you know even if so you know twice a microcycle I'll always do like some kind of like weighted isolation hamstring movement there. So that's pretty much it. So I'm going like recap you know every other workout I'm starting with a heavy lunge or split squat and then the other workouts I'm alternating between like a heavy squat movement and a heavy hinge movement. So I just alternate there. And then on the days where I start with that unilateral movement first, I'm almost always doing a high rep squatting type movement, you know. And then so I just went over kind of the what mo I see most people see is like or when most people are doing wrong in the gym as far as why their legs aren't growing and not enough intensity, not enough frequency, not enough focus on their hamstrings and glutes. Those are the main ones, you know, not enough frontal plane movement. And then as far as cal development goes, here's the hard thing with cal development. Calves are predominantly the calves you see anyway are predominantly so twitch fibers. So you can hit them in the gym and you probably should at least once a week but they really grow with the things that you are or are not doing outside of the gym. Um my calves didn't really start to grow until I got in the military and I started really walking long distances with weight. So, the hard part for people to understand is if they're just not really that active outside of the gym, like doing longer walks and like even longer bike rides because that actually works the calves a lot too. Not doing a lot of hiking or they're not doing a lot of sprinting and jumping like high rep jumping and things like that, their calves just probably won't grow that well unless you know they're genetically predisposed to having bigger calves. You really need to hammer the calves with a lot of frequency and volume to get them to grow. Like if you see the people with the larger calves, it's normally not gym bros. It's normally people that are jumping and you know or doing distance running even or hiking with a lot of weight. Like if you see your postman like you know it's weird like you see your post dude walking around he kind of has a gub but he has these massive calves and that just shows you like what calves really respond to. So, I do hit calves in the gym about once a week, but it's normally my main purpose there is for Achilles tendon health. So, I use it to like really stretch out my Achilles tendon, work some foot health, things like that. And and my favorite cal exercise to do is actually, if you can find it, the donkey calav raise. You know, those that's probably my all-time favorite cal movement. And you hardly see anybody do those anymore. A lot of people will do the standing calav raise and the seated calav raise, you know, and then they don't do a lot of unilateral work either for their calves. So you don't, you know, see people doing single leg cal raise as much anymore. And then, you know, you got to understand too that your lower leg is a lot more than just your two quote unquote calf muscles, which is just your solius and your gastromas. You know, there's anterior calf muscle or calf or lower leg muscles rather, which is, you know, very important for athleticism and it's the most chronically underdeveloped muscle in the body, the tibialis anterior. And then also, you have your lateral lower leg muscles, which are just really hard to develop in the gym. And if you want a really good lower looking leg that looks like an athletes leg, you kind of have to do what athletes are doing and that is a lot of multidirectional and change of direction type sprinting and plyometrics and things. And most people just don't do that kind of stuff. So, you know, you can get really big calves and and I I always say like I can see somebody in the gym and tell if they're just a or see somebody in the street and just tell if they're a gym bro or if they're like they're an actual athlete because a gym bro might have the two big cal muscles. their gastro and solius might be developed. But I look at their front and lateral lower leg and it's just underdeveloped because they don't do things to develop their tibio anterior and they don't do things to develop their lateral lower leg muscles. So just I highly encourage you like I'm talking today about you know what to do what I do in the gym for my legs. I don't really do a lot for my calves in the gym just because I know how limited that is in their growth and you know health and performance. Most of the cal work I do isn't really cal work. It's just athletic work or endurance work. And that just builds my calves coincidentally. So I mean that's what I do um to build my legs. Um you know and exercises I love my favorite exercises you know you know I love my zer squats. You know I love dumbbell walking lunges. You know I love all kinds of Bulgarian split squats. You know I love my glute ham raises and my Nordics. Um, those are my go-tos. I love my hip thrusts of all kinds. I love my Casac squats. Sometimes I'll go really heavy. I'll do zer cosac squats. I'll normally do those on a hip dominant day. So, let's say you know I'll start out with like a heavy trap bar deadlift. I'll normally do like heavy zer cas squats second in the order of operations there. I love those. What else do I really like? Oh, I love squats. So a lot of people that rag on like the single joint quad movements like you know your functional guys or your crossfit guys I even read in the CrossFit manual that like things like leg extensions are quote unquote nonfunctional but you have to understand how the quadricep muscle group works. So the quadricep muscle groups especially the rectus force they have two main jobs. They extend your knee and they help to flex your hip. The problem is with almost all leg exercises outside of the gym other than sprinting, we never really extend our leg or try to flex our hip with max force. So normally like with a lunge, even though the knee is extending, the hip is also extending. So the rectus forous can't activate fully. So you never get full quad activation doing those. So, you know, it's very important to add in exercises, especially things like squats where you your hips stay extended while you extend your knee in order to fully activate your rectus forous, which is a very important quad muscle both for performance and for appearance. And that's another great thing that leg extensions do. they activate your rectus forous because you can focus on extending your knee without having to inhibit that muscle through simultaneous hip extension. So that's kind of my pitch for incorporating a little bit of single joint quad work if you don't already. It'll really help your legs be more athletic and robust and also look a lot better as far as isolating your leg muscles go. So, you know, a lot of people it's popular to say that like you can't isolate your quadricep muscles because they share a common tendon, your patellar tendon or I guess your quad tendon because it's it's it's superior to your patella and you can while you can't isolate it, you can bias it and you know and a way to bias like your vastest lateralis which is your quad sweep is to do things with your knee towards your midline. line. So what I mean by that is if your knee is is towards your midline in relation to your hipbone, it's going to bias that vast lateralis or the outer quad muscle. And exercises that are great for this are any kind of lunging, but also um step-ups and things are great for working that vasis lateralis. Um, I also lunge with my toe pointed slightly in for several reasons, but one of the reasons is to really bias that muscle. With your VMO or the teardrop muscle above your knee, it's really hard to work that without getting a full range of motion. So, really deep back squats. Um, and cannonball squats will really help work your vast mediialis. So, another thing is step-ups are are high box step-ups especially are great for working your VMO. TKES are also great. Um, so put a band around your knee and and get full knee extension and and squeeze that lock out. Okay. The rectus forous, we already talked about the isolation movements there. And then your vasis intermedi which is kind of the quad muscle that you can't see, but if you grow it, it adds a lot of girth to your overall leg. that muscle really has, you know, no major limitations there. So really, it's worked best just through very high tension quad movement. So just, you know, really high tension squats and you don't need a huge range of motion to really activate that one, unlike the vastest lateralis or VMO. As far as your hamstring muscles go, those can really be isolated because they actually do not share common attachments. So, you know, really rotating your femur in when you do movements like pointing your kneecap towards your midline is really going to bias your biceps forous, which is like the most lateral hamstring muscle, the one that you commonly see from the side. So, you know, when you do things like leg curls and and everything, make sure that your feet are slightly wider than your knees. And that'll bias that with your feet turned in a little bit. you know, when you deadlift and things, you can do them slightly pigeon towed, and you'll find that that biases that, especially if you want to do them single leg or unilateral deadlifts, point your toe in a little bit. An exercise I love for that is the uh the 45°ree extension. I'll do those unilaterally, and I'll point my toe in a little bit, and it'll really bias that biceps for. But the same thing for, you know, your semimebinosis and tendinosis. Meanosis is the inside hamstring muscle. Turning your your femurss out a little bit when you do your hamstring work will bias that a little bit more. And then lastly, you know, a big muscle that we forget about is is your adductor magnus. So, it's a really large adductor muscle that when a lot of people look at people that are lean, they confuse that with a their medial hamstring muscle, but it's not. It's it's it's a adductor muscle, but it also greatly contributes to hip extension. So things like casacs and you know very kind of wide stance very low back squats or things like frog stance you know deadlifts will really build that adductor magnus which is that meaty muscle on the inside of your leg and give your thighs a much meteor appearance. So that's another reason I think it's crucial that you incorporate a lot of cas into your um leg workout. But that's pretty much it. I mean, that's how I built my legs and that's how I would structure leg workouts. If I were you, I'd just be very careful, you know, not to do what I said, which is focus way too much on bilateral quadricep movements and, you know, focus a lot more on developing the hamstrings and the glutes using the techniques I've pointed out. But, I hope you all have a good day. [Music]