Wasting sets on arm exercises not built for you can lead to slow progress and also beating up your joints. We're going to fix that today. I'm John Dwitt with J3 University. We elevate the standard of physique education. And I coach some top level IFBB pros and we know like we can't waste time on what works for building big arms. We need every set to matter and not have wasted volume going towards these muscle groups. Today, I'm going to show you two biggest mistakes that just kill bicep and tricep progress, and also show you my four exercises that'll cover everything you need for developing your biceps and triceps. I didn't always have amazing arms. I definitely had to work around a lot of joint issues and getting beat up forearms from doing arm exercises incorrectly. So, these are the lifts that actually work for me and the athletes that I coach. Bicep mistakes. Let's start with the obvious one of just sloppy form and using too much momentum. Swinging the weight up turns this into a lower back exercise and then secondarily a shoulder exercise. As that elbow comes underneath the hand as you're raising up like a shoulder raise, you end up taking tension off the bicep and just making the lift easier to use more load. That reduced tension on the bicep is reducing the main driver hypertrophy mechanical tension. So the easy fix here is for one some shoulder movement is going to happen and that's fine, but we mainly primarily for our bicep work only want to move at the elbow joint. That's all we should see moving. And the bicep mistake number two is turning the bicep curl also into a wrist flexion extension movement. By flexing the wrist as you're curling, you're shortening the forearm essentially and making it to where you can mechanically move more load. That quick flexion of the wrist drops tension on the bicep allows you to keep lifting the weight. The biceps are primarily an elbow flexor. They don't move the wrist at all. So keep that wrist locked in place as you're curling to not change the resistance profile as you lift. The extra tip I would say here is keep that hand in supernation to really put bias into the bicep and not load into more of the brachiialis or brachioraiialis or even also load some of the side of the elbow causing some of that joint stress to occur. Now my number one bicep exercise is a basian cable curl. It's fully length and loaden with a lot of tension in the bottom position. The key here is set it up so the upper arm meets the cable at 90° in the start position. As you curl, the cable will move in line with forearm and decrease tension, but that is perfect to match the biceps weaker contractile position as it shortens. If you don't have a dual cable setup, no problem. Single arm will work just fine here. A key setup thing is from your front view. You should be able to see that the cable runs through the elbow, through the middle of the hand, and through the delt. My next pick for the number two is a single arm dumbbell preacher curl. While the BAS curl does a great job training at the longest muscle lengths, the preacher curl allowed us to hit some mid-range tension but also get that bicep loaded fully shortened. Some are going to think that this is more of a lengthen loaded exercise. And absolutely the bicep is it's very hard when the hand is fully extended. However, being that you're in some degree of shoulder flexion, the bicep isn't fully actually lengthened like it is in that basin curl where the upper arm is kind of behind you a little bit. However, getting in this upper arm flexed position, you're able to get that bicep fully shortened. I like this one because you have a braced upper arm, so it keeps it very strict. For the setup here, just make from the shoulder to the elbow to the wrist directs straight down to the ground. What a lot of people like to do is start to arm wrestle the weight up and internally rotate that arm as they come up. Pairing the batties and curl and the preacher curl covers the full contractile range of the bicep. On to our triceps and tricep mistakes. The first one is pressing instead of extending. Turning cable extensions into mini presses removes some of that bias on the long head and my primarily will be a lot of lateral and medial head of the tricep. And also as you're pressing, you're going to be using some delt brought in too. So goal here with your triceps, keep the shoulder locked. Only move at the elbow. Mistake number two is poor wrist positioning. And many times this is going to lead to a lot of elbow pain. So pressing with a lot of these attachments like the easy bar or even ropes pressing into with your thumb side or we'll call this the radial side can easily load the side of the elbow leading to more golfer elbow or also known as medial epicondilitis. So I would advise you keep tension through the er side of the wrist. This is that bottom side the pinky side of the wrist. And if you need more instruction there make sure to check out my tricep video on fixing your tricep extension. I cover this more in depth. So tricep exercises that are my top two picks. So, for one, just a single arm tricep cable extension. Since this one's not overhead, it has a slight bias to the medial and the lateral heads. However, absolutely the long head's going to work. What I like to look from the front view is as I'm extending, making sure that cable, you can see it running through the delt, the elbow, and the wrist. For queuing, just driving the hand back down to the hip and not thinking about pressing it towards the ground. My pick number two is an overhead cable extension. You also could use this with a daisy chain or even a dual cable setup if you have one. The benefit here is that it fully lengthens the long head of the tricep, which is your biggest part of the arm. Since you are using cables, it can easily use a cable cuff. This also prevents it from being uh an elbow destroyer for many people like skull crushers can be. Cue here is the elbow is fixed high and locked in place. Get down into the full stretch in the bottom position and shift yourself to the right or left to feel that peak tension in that bottom position. As you extend that hand upward, you should see that cable start to line up with through the delt and the elbow and also reducing tension, which makes it the resistance profile match the strength profile really well with that type of execution. Now, John, why no close grip bench press? Why no dips? Well, likely you're already having a lot of pressing throughout your programming already. And with all that pressing movement, anything that's going through shoulder flexion at the same time as elbow extensions is occurring opposes the action of the long head of the tricep. So you end up getting some long head tricep neglection if you don't have a fixed upper arm position doing elbow extension. That's why we have an elbow extension with an arm at the side and also overhead. This will fully cover the development of the tricep. Bonus lift, a number five lift, hammer curls. We need to train the brachiialis. My choice here is a crossbody dumbbell hammer curl. The brachiialis is the muscle that really sits between the bicep and tricep. It's what's going to give width to the arm, but also bring more detail when the arm once you're lean enough. Keep those arms slightly in front of the body as you're doing them. Keep a neutral grip and just make sure you're just not swinging the weights. These four lifts, or should I say five lifts, surprise, cover everything you need for arm growth. you have the full range of motion to train all heads of the biceps, the triceps, brachiialis through the full range of motion and loading at all spectrums of those ranges as well. This is exactly how I program these lifts in for my top level guys or if guys even then just want to fill in their sleeves a little bit more and get those big pythons. If you want a full system on how to scale volume week to week, progress your lifts, it's exactly what we teach inside J3 University. Subscribe for more physique fix breakdowns and comment down below what's your weak body part. What should I go to next to help address in a video? See you everyone next time. Thank you for tuning in.